---
type: entry
weight: 152
title: Gathering of immortals
class: side-by-side
object:
  - id: 2
---
Over thirty Daoist immortals, such as Shoulao (the God
of Longevity), the Eight Immortals, Hehe Immortals
and Magu, the Goddess of Longevity, adorn these scrolls,
along with auspicious mythical creatures such as *qilins*
and phoenixes. On the first horizontal scroll, the Queen
Mother of the West, shown on a staircase surrounded
by attendants, is offering a large Peach of Immortality
(*xiantao*). On the second tapestry, a group of immortals is
shown surrounded by two trees bearing abundant *xiantao*,
accompanied by waves and clouds. Various weaving
techniques create the vivid imagery of the second hanging
scroll. In order to highlight the figures’ silhouettes, the *gou*
(‘connecting’) technique was used to outline the robes,
while the rocks and ocean waves were woven with the
*changduanqiang* (‘long-and-short propping’) technique.
This process employs various long and short, light- and
dark-coloured wefts that offset each other to create a fluid
and natural colouration. Another similar method known
as *mushuqiang* (‘wood comb propping’), in which wefts
of similar tones are woven into a comb-like edge pattern,
creates the reddish pink *xiantao*.

Scenes on both scrolls may depict an episode recorded in
Daoist literary texts, such as Du Guangting’s (850–933)
*Yongcheng Jixian Lu* (Records of the Assembled Immortals of
the Walled City), in which the Queen Mother of the West
holds a birthday banquet at her home on Mount Kunlun,
after the Peaches of Immortality from her garden have
ripened.

*Kesi* showing gatherings of immortals were popular
among the upper-class in the Qing dynasty because of
their auspicious connotations of longevity and prosperity.
They were typically displayed indoors or exchanged
between scholars as gifts.
