---
type: entry
weight: 156
title: Orioles and magnolias
class: side-by-side
object:
  - id: 6
---
Woven in polychrome wefts against a blue ground, the
birds on this *kesi* are black-naped golden orioles. Woven in
the *changduanqiang* (‘long-and-short propping’) technique,
the magnolias in beige and light green colours grant the
flowers a sense of simple beauty. The yellow bodies of the
orioles were woven in a technique known as *baoxinqiang*
(‘embracing propping’), in which the shading of colours
moves smoothly from the edge towards the centre,
resulting in a darker outer area and lighter centre.

The finely woven feathers, claws and beaks of the
orioles, as well as the magnolias, offer a vivid illustration
of spring. A seal inscription on the lower left reads
*Shen Jinshui*, indicating that the tapestry was woven by
Shen Jinshui (1883–1968), who was born in Likou, Wu
county, Jiangsu province. Shen Jinshui began learning
*kesi* weaving at the age of fifteen. One of the three most
prominent *kesi* weavers in Suzhou, he reportedly served
in the imperial workshops of the Forbidden City and was
invited to teach *kesi* weaving at the Suzhou Cixiu Yanjiusuo
(‘Suzhou Embroidery Research Institute’) in the 1950s.
Shen taught many influential weavers, including Wang
Jinshan (b. 1939), who was designated by the government
as a Representative Inheritor (*chuanchen ren*) of Suzhou
*kesi* weaving. This tradition was included in the
first group of items designated for the National List of
Intangible Cultural Heritage of China in 2006.
